README.md, before:

# GraphQL schema components

Reference implementation around the concept of a partial schema / component similar to that discussed [here](https://medium.com/homeaway-tech-blog/distributed-graphql-schema-development-npm-modules-d734a3cb6f12).

This is very similar to the excellent `graphql-modules` project — but a little closer to our own internal paradigm already in use for over a year and a half and adds some features such as `exclude` root types from `imports` and memoize resolvers.

In fact, this module utilizes the `graphql-toolkit` developed by the `graphql-modules` team to merge types and resolvers.

### The future

Experimental / alpha for now.

### Repository structure

- `lib` - the graphql-component code.
- `test/examples/example-listing/property-component` - a component implementation for `Property`.
- `test/examples/example-listing/reviews-component` - a component implementation for `Reviews`.
- `test/examples/example-listing/listing-component` - a component implementation composing `Property` and `Reviews`.
- `test/examples/example-listing/server` - the "application".

### Running the example

Can be run with `node examples/server/index.js` or `npm start` which will start with debug flags.

### Debugging

Enable debug logging with `DEBUG=graphql-component:*`

### Activating mocks

To intercept resolvers with mocks execute this app with `GRAPHQL_DEBUG=1` enabled.

# Usage

```javascript
new GraphQLComponent({
  // A string or array of strings representing typeDefs and rootTypes
  types,
  // An object containing resolver functions
  resolvers,
  // An optional object containing resolver dev/test fixtures
  mocks,
  // An optional array of imported components for the schema to be merged with
  imports,
  // An optional object containing custom schema directives
  directives,
  // An optional object { namespace, factory } for contributing to context
  context,
  // Enable mocks
  useMocks,
  // Preserve type resolvers in mock mode
  preserveMockResolvers
});
```

This will create an instance object of a component containing the following functions:

- `schema` - getter that returns an executable schema.
- `context` - context builder.

### Encapsulating state

Typically the best way to make a re-useable component will be to extend `GraphQLComponent`.

```javascript
const GraphQLComponent = require('graphql-component');
const Resolvers = require('./resolvers');
const Types = require('./types');
const Mocks = require('./mocks');

class PropertyComponent extends GraphQLComponent {
  constructor({ useMocks, preserveTypeResolvers }) {
    super({ types: Types, resolvers: Resolvers, mocks: Mocks, useMocks, preserveTypeResolvers });
  }
}

module.exports = PropertyComponent;
```

This will allow for configuration (in this example, `useMocks` and `preserveTypeResolvers`) as well as instance data per component (such as data base clients, etc).

### Aggregation

Example to merge multiple components:

```javascript
const { schema, context } = new GraphQLComponent({
  imports: [
    new Property(),
    new Reviews()
  ]
});

const server = new ApolloServer({
    schema,
    context
});
```

### Excluding root fields from imports

You can exclude root fields from imported components:

```javascript
const { schema, context } = new GraphQLComponent({
  imports: [
    {
      component: new Property(),
      exclude: ['Mutation.*']
    },
    {
      component: new Reviews(),
      exclude: ['Mutation.*']
    }
  ]
});
```

This will keep from leaking unintended surface area.

### Adding to context

Example context argument:

```javascript
const context = {
  namespace: 'myNamespace',
  factory: function ({ req }) {
    return 'my value';
  }
};
```

After this, resolver `context` will contain `{ ..., myNamespace: 'my value' }`.

### Context middleware

It may be necessary to transform the context before invoking component context.

```javascript
const { schema, context } = new GraphQLComponent({types, resolvers, context});

context.use('transformRawRequest', ({ request }) => {
  return { req: request.raw.req };
});
```

Using `context` now in `apollo-server-hapi` for example, will transform the context to one similar to default `apollo-server`.

### Mocks

graphql-component accepts mocks in much the same way that Apollo does but with one difference.

Instead of accepting a mocks object, it accepts `(importedMocks) => mocksObject` argument. This allows components to utilize the mocks from other imported components easily.

Commit message:

added an execute function on components to invoke graphql.execute

README.md, after:

# GraphQL schema components

Reference implementation around the concept of a partial schema / component similar to that discussed [here](https://medium.com/homeaway-tech-blog/distributed-graphql-schema-development-npm-modules-d734a3cb6f12).

This is very similar to the excellent `graphql-modules` project — but a little closer to our own internal paradigm already in use for over a year and a half and adds some features such as `exclude` root types from `imports` and memoize resolvers.

In fact, this module utilizes the `graphql-toolkit` developed by the `graphql-modules` team to merge types and resolvers.

### The future

Experimental / alpha for now.

### Repository structure

- `lib` - the graphql-component code.
- `test/examples/example-listing/property-component` - a component implementation for `Property`.
- `test/examples/example-listing/reviews-component` - a component implementation for `Reviews`.
- `test/examples/example-listing/listing-component` - a component implementation composing `Property` and `Reviews`.
- `test/examples/example-listing/server` - the "application".

### Running the example

Can be run with `node examples/server/index.js` or `npm start` which will start with debug flags.

### Debugging

Enable debug logging with `DEBUG=graphql-component:*`

### Activating mocks

To intercept resolvers with mocks execute this app with `GRAPHQL_DEBUG=1` enabled.

# Usage

```javascript
new GraphQLComponent({
  // A string or array of strings representing typeDefs and rootTypes
  types,
  // An object containing resolver functions
  resolvers,
  // An optional object containing resolver dev/test fixtures
  mocks,
  // An optional array of imported components for the schema to be merged with
  imports,
  // An optional object containing custom schema directives
  directives,
  // An optional object { namespace, factory } for contributing to context
  context,
  // Enable mocks
  useMocks,
  // Preserve type resolvers in mock mode
  preserveMockResolvers
});
```

This will create an instance object of a component containing the following functions:

- `schema` - getter that returns an executable schema.
- `context` - context builder.

### Encapsulating state

Typically the best way to make a re-useable component will be to extend `GraphQLComponent`.

```javascript
const GraphQLComponent = require('graphql-component');
const Resolvers = require('./resolvers');
const Types = require('./types');
const Mocks = require('./mocks');

class PropertyComponent extends GraphQLComponent {
  constructor({ useMocks, preserveTypeResolvers }) {
    super({ types: Types, resolvers: Resolvers, mocks: Mocks, useMocks, preserveTypeResolvers });
  }
}

module.exports = PropertyComponent;
```

This will allow for configuration (in this example, `useMocks` and `preserveTypeResolvers`) as well as instance data per component (such as data base clients, etc).

### Aggregation

Example to merge multiple components:

```javascript
const { schema, context } = new GraphQLComponent({
  imports: [
    new Property(),
    new Reviews()
  ]
});

const server = new ApolloServer({
    schema,
    context
});
```

### Excluding root fields from imports

You can exclude root fields from imported components:

```javascript
const { schema, context } = new GraphQLComponent({
  imports: [
    {
      component: new Property(),
      exclude: ['Mutation.*']
    },
    {
      component: new Reviews(),
      exclude: ['Mutation.*']
    }
  ]
});
```

This will keep from leaking unintended surface area.

### Adding to context

Example context argument:

```javascript
const context = {
  namespace: 'myNamespace',
  factory: function ({ req }) {
    return 'my value';
  }
};
```

After this, resolver `context` will contain `{ ..., myNamespace: 'my value' }`.

### Context middleware

It may be necessary to transform the context before invoking component context.

```javascript
const { schema, context } = new GraphQLComponent({types, resolvers, context});

context.use('transformRawRequest', ({ request }) => {
  return { req: request.raw.req };
});
```

Using `context` now in `apollo-server-hapi` for example, will transform the context to one similar to default `apollo-server`.

### Directly executing components

Components can be directly executed via the `execute` function. The `execute` function is basically a passthrough to `graphql.execute` and is mostly useful for components calling imported components and the like.

`execute(input, options)` accepts an `input` string and an optional `options` object with the following fields:

- `root` - root object.
- `context` - context object value.
- `variables` - key:value mapping of variables for the input.

### Mocks

graphql-component accepts mocks in much the same way that Apollo does but with one difference.

Instead of accepting a mocks object, it accepts `(importedMocks) => mocksObject` argument. This allows components to utilize the mocks from other imported components easily.
